BUILD.md, before:

# DogSight AI - Build Instructions

This guide explains how to build and package the DogSight AI application for distribution.

## Prerequisites

- Node.js (v14 or higher)
- Python 3.8+ (for compiling detection script)
- pip (Python package manager)

## Building the Application

### 1. Compile Python Detection Script (Recommended for Distribution)

Compiling the Python script creates a standalone executable that doesn't require users to have Python installed.

#### Windows

```bash
cd app/detection
pip install pyinstaller
pyinstaller --onefile --name detect detect.py
```

This creates `app/detection/dist/detect.exe`

#### macOS

```bash
cd app/detection
pip3 install pyinstaller
pyinstaller --onefile --name detect detect.py
```

This creates `app/detection/dist/detect` (executable with no extension)

**Note**: The compiled executable must include the YOLO model file (`yolo11n.pt`) in the same directory.

### 2. Build React Frontend

```bash
cd app/frontend
npm install
npm run build
```

This creates the production build in `app/frontend/build/`

### 3. Package Electron Application

#### Windows Package

```bash
cd app
npm install
npx electron-packager . DogSightAI --platform=win32 --arch=x64 --out=dist --overwrite
```

Output: `app/dist/DogSightAI-win32-x64/`

#### macOS Package

```bash
cd app
npm install
npx electron-packager . DogSightAI --platform=darwin --arch=x64 --out=dist --overwrite
```

For Apple Silicon (M1/M2):
```bash
npx electron-packager . DogSightAI --platform=darwin --arch=arm64 --out=dist --overwrite
```

For both architectures:
```bash
npx electron-packager . DogSightAI --platform=darwin --arch=x64,arm64 --out=dist --overwrite
```

Output: `app/dist/DogSightAI-darwin-x64/DogSightAI.app`

## Full Build Process

Here's the complete build process from start to finish:

```bash
# 1. Compile Python detection script
cd app/detection
pip install pyinstaller
pyinstaller --onefile --name detect detect.py
cd ../..

# 2. Build React frontend
cd app/frontend
npm install
npm run build
cd ..

# 3. Package Electron app (Windows example)
npm install
npx electron-packager . DogSightAI --platform=win32 --arch=x64 --out=dist --overwrite
```

## Distribution

### Windows
Zip the entire `app/dist/DogSightAI-win32-x64/` folder and distribute.

### macOS
Zip the `app/dist/DogSightAI-darwin-x64/DogSightAI.app` and distribute.

**Important**: Make sure to include:
- The compiled detection executable (`detect.exe` or `detect`)
- The YOLO model file (`yolo11n.pt`)
- All required dependencies

## Development Mode (Without Compilation)

If you want to run in development mode without compiling the Python script:

```bash
cd app/frontend
npm run build
cd ..
npm start
```

**Requirements**: Python 3 must be installed on the system, with required packages:
```bash
cd app/detection
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Troubleshooting

### "spawn python ENOENT" on Mac
- Ensure Python 3 is installed: `which python3`
- Or compile the detection script as described above

### "spawn python ENOENT" on Windows
- Ensure Python is installed and in PATH: `where python`
- Or compile the detection script as described above

### Camera not detected
- Check camera permissions in OS settings
- Ensure no other application is using the camera
- Try running with administrator/sudo privileges

### Model file not found
- Ensure `yolo11n.pt` is in `app/detection/` directory
- If using compiled executable, copy model file to `app/detection/dist/`

## Notes

- The compiled detection executable is platform-specific (Windows .exe won't run on Mac and vice versa)
- You need to compile the detection script separately for each platform
- The Electron package includes the compiled executable, so end users don't need Python
- For cross-platform builds, build on each platform separately or use CI/CD

Commit message:

Submit error handling and fix failing timeout at first run.
The issue: YOLO model loading takes 10-24 seconds (first run) or 5-8 seconds (subsequent runs), but:
Python was silent during this entire phase
Frontend timeout was only 15 seconds
Timeout fired before model finished loading
Shortly after, model loaded and sent status, clearing the error
Now fixed: Python sends status immediately, and timeout is generous enough to cover all legitimate scenarios.

BUILD.md, after:

# DogSight AI - Build Instructions

This guide explains how to build and package the DogSight AI application for distribution.

## Prerequisites

- Node.js (v14 or higher)
- Python 3.8+ (for compiling detection script)
- pip (Python package manager)

## Building the Application

### 1. Compile Python Detection Script (Recommended for Distribution)

Compiling the Python script creates a standalone executable that doesn't require users to have Python installed.

#### Windows

```bash
cd app/detection
pip install pyinstaller
pyinstaller --onefile --name detect --distpath . detect.py
```

This creates `app/detection/detect.exe`

**After compilation, move the YOLO model:**
```bash
copy yolo11n.pt detect.exe
```
(The model file must be in the same directory as the executable)

#### macOS

```bash
cd app/detection
pip3 install pyinstaller
pyinstaller --onefile --name detect --distpath . detect.py
```

This creates `app/detection/detect` (executable with no extension)

**After compilation, ensure the YOLO model is in the same directory:**
```bash
cp yolo11n.pt detect
```
(The model file must be in the same directory as the executable)

**Note**: The compiled executable must include the YOLO model file (`yolo11n.pt`) in the same directory.

### 2. Build React Frontend

```bash
cd app/frontend
npm install
npm run build
```

This creates the production build in `app/frontend/build/`

### 3. Package Electron Application

#### Windows Package

```bash
cd app
npm install
npx electron-packager . DogSightAI --platform=win32 --arch=x64 --out=dist --overwrite
```

Output: `app/dist/DogSightAI-win32-x64/`

#### macOS Package

```bash
cd app
npm install
npx electron-packager . DogSightAI --platform=darwin --arch=x64 --out=dist --overwrite
```

For Apple Silicon (M1/M2):
```bash
npx electron-packager . DogSightAI --platform=darwin --arch=arm64 --out=dist --overwrite
```

For both architectures:
```bash
npx electron-packager . DogSightAI --platform=darwin --arch=x64,arm64 --out=dist --overwrite
```

Output: `app/dist/DogSightAI-darwin-x64/DogSightAI.app`

## Full Build Process

Here's the complete build process from start to finish:

```bash
# 1. Compile Python detection script
cd app/detection
pip install pyinstaller
pyinstaller --onefile --name detect --distpath . detect.py
cd ../..

# 2. Build React frontend
cd app/frontend
npm install
npm run build
cd ..

# 3. Package Electron app (Windows example)
npm install
npx electron-packager . DogSightAI --platform=win32 --arch=x64 --out=dist --overwrite
```

## Distribution

### Windows
Zip the entire `app/dist/DogSightAI-win32-x64/` folder and distribute.

### macOS
Zip the `app/dist/DogSightAI-darwin-x64/DogSightAI.app` and distribute.

**Important**: Make sure to include:
- The compiled detection executable (`detect.exe` or `detect`)
- The YOLO model file (`yolo11n.pt`)
- All required dependencies

## Development Mode (Without Compilation)

If you want to run in development mode without compiling the Python script:

```bash
cd app/frontend
npm run build
cd ..
npm start
```

**Requirements**: Python 3 must be installed on the system, with required packages:
```bash
cd app/detection
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Troubleshooting

### "spawn python ENOENT" on Mac
- Ensure Python 3 is installed: `which python3`
- Or compile the detection script as described above

### "spawn python ENOENT" on Windows
- Ensure Python is installed and in PATH: `where python`
- Or compile the detection script as described above

### Camera not detected
- Check camera permissions in OS settings
- Ensure no other application is using the camera
- Try running with administrator/sudo privileges

### Model file not found
- Ensure `yolo11n.pt` is in `app/detection/` directory (same location as detect.exe or detect)
- The model file must be in the same directory as the compiled executable

## Notes

- The compiled detection executable is platform-specific (Windows .exe won't run on Mac and vice versa)
- You need to compile the detection script separately for each platform
- The Electron package includes the compiled executable, so end users don't need Python
- For cross-platform builds, build on each platform separately or use CI/CD
